Perinatal results in gestations achieved by assisted reproduction techniques
Abstract:
Since the birth of the first baby after In Vitro Fertilization in England (year 1978), Assisted
Reproduction Techniques (ART) have experienced exponential growth, both in number
and complexity. It is estimated that between 15% -17% of couples of reproductive age
will present problems of sterility and that may be secondary to being treated in Assisted
Reproduction Units.
In Spain, the number of infertile couples is estimated at 800,000. The high prevalence of
this pathology is mainly due to two etiological factors, poor seminal quality in males and
advanced maternal age.
It is estimated that after 40 years, around 5 million children born in the different Assisted
Reproduction Techniques have been born in the world.
The law that regulates the different assisted reproduction treatments is Law 14/2006 of
May 26, published in B.O.E.
In this article the perinatal results of the pregnancies obtained by the different Assisted

Reproduction Techniques are analyzed. For this we have used the data from different Ac-
tivity Records of the Spanish Fertility Society (SEF). The activity record of the SEF, is the offi-
cial registry of the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality (MSSSI) and in it the data

dump more than 90% of the Assisted Reproduction Units, both public and private.
It is concluded that the percentage of cesareans and multiple pregnancies is higher in the
pregnancies obtained by the different T.R.A. than in natural pregnancies and that the worst
perinatal results are basically when the woman is over 40 and in multiple pregnancies.
In order to improve the perinatal results of these pregnancies, it is necessary to act on
different fronts informing the population with reproductive desires that the woman's age
is basic in the face of a pregnancy, that the patient with reproductive problems should be
previously studied from the point of obstetric view and that measures should be taken in
the Reproduction Units to avoid, as far as possible, multiple pregnancies.
